sronv or uooxs 1.-v111. ix

their destined home. Accordingly they next set sall for Italy,
but were driven on the shores oi the Strophades. Here the

J malignant Celaeno, queen ol the Harpies, filled them with dis-
} may by the prediction that, before they should succeed in
founding the city promised by the Fates, they would be com-

pelled by hunger to gnaw their very tables. Their next land-

] ing-place was Buthrotum, on the coast oi Epirus. Here

Helenus, the seer, told thern that the shore on which they

j should find a white sow, with a litter oi thirty young, lying in

the shade oi the trees, would be the limit of their wanderings
and the site of their permanent abode. Avoiding Scylla and

, Charybdis, as they continued their voyage, and escaping the
Ῑ giant Cyclopes, they finally reached the harbor oi Drepanum
j on the western coast of Sicily. “l had just departed irorn

Sicily,’' says Aeneas in conclusion, “when Heaven drove me

. on your shores.’'

1v.- As Aeneas tells his story, Dido’s admiration and love
ior the heroos such perilous adventures mount higher. She
makes a confidante of her sister Anna, who fans the flame by
warm expressions ol approval and sympathy. Juno, too, see·
ing in a union between Aeneas and Dido a possible means oi
overreaching Destiny and securing ior Carthage the gift ol
universal sway that has been awarded by the Fates to Rome,
joins with Venus in a plot for promoting such a union. This
purpose they accomplish, and the royal pair are united.

Forthwith the mischievous consequences are seen in the
infatuation oi the royal lovers. Aeneas forgets in Dido’s
society the high destiny that awaits him, and Dido no longer
finds pleasure in watching over her newly established govern-
ment. ln the midst of this idle dalliance‚ Mercury, despatched
by Jupiter, rudely awakens Aeneas from his dreamy seli-indul·
gence and rouses him to action. Aeneas, restored to a sense oi

responsibility ior the future oi his race, gives orders to his men

 

